{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs36 Ryan Breed\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Contact\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Info\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 mail\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "mailto:recruit@REMOVETHIS.breed.org"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
{\f1 recruit@breed.org}
}}}
\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 voice\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "tel:+1-661-R-BREED-1"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
{\f1 +1 (661) R-BREED-1}
}}}
\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 github\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\f1 github.com/ryanbreed}\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 linkedin\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\f1 linkedin.com/in/ryanbreed}\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 Overview\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Seasoned security professional with 19 years of deep technical experience in security assessment, penetration testing, security monitoring, incident response, application security, and security architecture. I have a keen interest in practical applications of large-scale data analysis and infrastructure automation to increase organizational resilience to cyber attacks and other major disturbances. I also have practical experience automating Cyber Threat Intelligence sharing and organizing collective security initiatives through cooperative information sharing with public and private sector entities.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 Education\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab University of Texas at Austin LBJ School of Public Affairs - Global Policy Studies (2012\u8211-2014)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab University of Rochester - Bachelor of Science in Molecular Genetics 1997\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 Experience\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 Principal, Critical Infrastructure Security\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li720 \fi0 {\i Electric Reliability Council of Texas (ERCOT)} Nov 2012 - Oct 2016\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Individual contributor responsible for engaging business units to develop strategic opportunities for improving grid and market systems while delivering on key security initiatives.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Key Responsibilities\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\i Senior Incident Responder}: provide investigation and analytical support for critical incidents.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\i Network Defense Hunt Mission}: develop novel analytics for event data. Exploit home-field advantage to degrade adversarial mobility and freedom of action.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\i Intelligence Lead}: prioritize collection and analysis projects. Develop strategic plans for threats to critical grid and market systems.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\i Technology Lead}: Research and implement emerging technologies for application to business and security challenges.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\i External Interface and Advocate}: Perform outreach to public and private sector via ISO/RTO council and DHS CISCP. Engage in public speaking to advocate for electricity sector needs and share information and practices.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Major Accomplishments:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Automated real-time integration of CMDB, IPAM, access control, and vulnerability data into machine-readable representation of entities, applications, business systems, and infrastructure.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Automated defensive countermeasures. Used model data to safely deploy automated containment, investigation, and other response countermeasures in response to automated threat detection analytics.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Implemented TAXII endpoint to ingest STIX cyber threat intelligence feeds and propagate indicators to monitoring and control surfaces.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Developed security testing for Continuous Integration. Used Bamboo to automate Nexpose for vulnerability and baseline assessment. Security findings over a project-specific risk threshold triggered a build failure and intiated response notification chain.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Developed automated report and security finding distribution. Management reports were automatically updated and reconfigured based on changes to underlying assets and changes in responsible parties.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Developed Ansible playbooks for CIS benchmarks and Nexpose vulnerabilities. Automated compliance artifact creation and remediation of findings in dev/test environments. Tickets for specific findings were dispatched to responsible parties where human intervention was required.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Implemented ELK stack for monitoring BroIDS, auditd, RSA Netwitness, and ArcSight ESM/Connector logs. Developed custom logstash plugins to enable event ingest from CMDB and ArcSight.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Implemented Telegraf, InfluxDB, and Grafana to translate event data into time series domain for tracking metrics and developing new analytics. Collected system telemetry with telegraf to enable performance analysis.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Developed scenario and training injects for GridEx III. Developed cyber simulator and ChatOps platform for use during exercise play.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Developed Big Data test bed - deployed DataStax Enterprise Cassandra, Hortonworks Hadoop, Apache Spark, GraphLab, Neo4j, and JupyterHub environments loaded with data from IT, market, and grid systems. Developed proof-of-concept analyses showcasing each technology platform for evaluation by business and IT owners.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 Manager, Critical Infrastructure Security\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li720 \fi0 {\i Electric Reliability Council of Texas (ERCOT)} Dec 2009 - Nov 2012\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Managed a team of 9 security analysts to cover security operations, monitoring, incident response, compliance controls, and security architecture.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Key Responsibilities\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Managed departmental budget, including annual and quarterly forecasting. Developed and presented project proposals for cyber security initiatives.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Provided guidance and oversight in the capital project process to ensure security objectives were incorporated into investment initiatives.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Lead audit response efforts for cyber security control activities in NERC CIP and SAS70 compliance programs.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Managed tasking and tracking to remediate findings from audits and other outside assessments.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Managed employee performance and aligned career development goals with strategic department objectives.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Developed working threat model for market and grid operations to guide strategic planning.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Developed, maintained, and exercised Disaster Recovery and Business Continuity plans for cyber security systems.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Contracted outside penetration tests and assessments to proactively identify and remediate security issues in business and IT systems.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Lead participation in public/private partnership projects with DOE and DHS.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Attained SECRET clearance under DHS Private Sector Clearance Program and attended threat briefings as necessary.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs20 Major Accomplishments\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Led implementation of DOE ESNM/CRISP pilot site and participated in program development workshops.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Developed automated security advisory analysis system to triage, score, and dispatch vendor advisories and vulnerability notifications.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Represented Cybersecurity Department in GridEx II Exercise Play.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Represented Electricity Subsector in classified threat workshops for IC at DOE INL.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 Lead, Security Operations\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li720 \fi0 {\i Electric Reliability Council of Texas (ERCOT)} Dec 2005 \u8211- Dec 2009\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Performed security monitoring, incident response, and investigations.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Key Responsibilities\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Infrastructure design and implementation for SIEM, IPS, IDS, Enterprise Forensics, full-content packet capture, web content filtering, and vulnerability management.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Workflow development for security operations, monitoring, and investigation processes. Developed dashboards, reports, and incident documentation templates. Documented procedures and created reports for compliance controls.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab SIEM content development for automated analysis of security events.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab IDS/IPS signature development to incorporate cyber observables extracted from investigations into real-time monitoring functions.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Perform forensic analysis of incident artifacts and other digital evidence. Develop incident reports and brief management on findings and recommended response actions.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 Major Accomplishments\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Deployed 2 major iterations of ArcSight ESM\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Integrated ArcSight ESM with IBM/ISS IPS, Snort NIDS, Tenable Nessus, Windows Events, UNIX/Network/Firewall Syslog, Oracle RDBMS, Microsoft SQL Server and Symantec Antivirus.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Developed automated analysis tools for decoding malicious javascript extracted from network traffic.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Developed full-content packet capture and indexing system to extract packet captures indexed on time and IP address.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Developed management application for BlueCoat site categorization via local policy database.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 Security Consultant\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li720 \fi0 {\i Unisys} Mar 2003 - Dec 2005\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Performed security assessments, penetration tests, and risk assessments for clients in the Financial Services, Health Care, Manufacturing, and Public sectors.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Wrote and presented post-engagement reports to clients and provided guidance for addressing findings in line with business objectives.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Developed labor models and project materials to support pre-sales and standardize engagement delivery across the security practice.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Developed application penetration test capabilities and assessment framework for other consultants within the practice.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Directed team activities for large assessments and security infrastructure implementation projects.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 Senior Staff, Security Engineering\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li720 \fi0 {\i Zurich Global Assets} Jun 2002 \u8211- Feb 2003\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Developed Security and Network Operations Center for ZGA infrastructure.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Acted as ZGA divisional representative at Zurich Financial Services Global Information Technology Services activities.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Performed security assessments on ZGA and ZFS infrastructure.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Administered local IDS, Firewall, and UNIX systems.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Performed local security monitoring.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Lead global security monitoring team (Dublin, Zurich, Schaumberg, New York, Los Angeles) across ZFS divisions.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Lead the global PKI implementation team.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 Technical Services Director\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li720 \fi0 {\i ThruPoint} Oct 1999 \u8211- Jun 2002\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Performed security assessment, penetration test, infrastructure design, and infrastructure implementation projects for clients in Financial Services and Media sectors.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Served as final internal point of escalation for all security consulting technical matters across the company.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Developed security test lab for use by other security consultants.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Directed security projects for large engagements.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Provided staff skills development assistance for other security consultants.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 Security Consultant\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li720 \fi0 {\i Securities Industry Automation Corporation (SIAC)} Oct 1998 \u8211- Sep 1999\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Did first shift firewall operations for Gauntlet firewalls on the internal perimeter networks.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Performed start-of-day and end-of-day procedures to ensure continuity of operations for second and third shifts.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Did requirements analysis for business requests and implemented subsequent infrastructure changes.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Performed UNIX system administration tasks to support maintenance activities\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Participated in Y2K readiness preparations for NYSE security infrastructure.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 Security Consultant\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li720 \fi0 {\i Interactive Futures} May 1997 \u8211- Sep 1998\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Performed security assessments for clients in the Media, Legal, and non-profit sector\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Designed and implemented CheckPoint and Gauntlet firewalls for VAR customers.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Designed and implemented Sun Solaris/SPARC systems for VAR customers.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Supported pre-sales discovery and developed written responses to RFP solicitations.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 Certifications\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Completion of Advanced Training - Mercedes AMG Driving Academy\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Leadership Skills for Managers Certificate Program - University of Texas at Austin Professional Development Center\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Advanced SCADA Security - Idaho National Laboratory National SCADA Test Bed\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Certified SCADA Security Architect - Digital Bond, Inc.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 Courses\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Microsoft Windows Security (SANS-505)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Reverse-engineering Malware (SANS-610)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab PowerShell (SANS-537)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Identifying and Removing Malware (SANS-537)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab ArcSight ESM 6.5 Security Administrator and Analyst (HPE-00924200)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 Awards\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Team Player Award - ERCOT March 2016\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab 1st place Team Autocross - Mercedes AMG Driving Academy June 2015\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Core Value Award for Expertise - ERCOT April 2014\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Team Player Award - ERCOT April 2014\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Exceptional Performer Award - ERCOT January 2014\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Certificate of Recognition: Principal, Critical Infrastructure Security - ERCOT December 2012\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Team Player Award - ERCOT July 2011\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Team Captain and Winning Team - Idaho National Laboratory NSTB Advanced SCADA Security Training November 2008\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 Skills\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\i Security}: ArcSight ESM/Logger, Bro IDS, McAfee Network Security Platform, Suricata IDS, RSA Security Analytics/Netwitness, Carbon Black Protection (Bit9 Parity), AppLocker, SILK, Netflow, Gigamon\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\i DF/IR}: Volatility Framework, plaso/log2timeline, EnCase, F-Response, Carbon Black Response, Soltra Edge, STIX/CybOx/TAXII/OpenIOC, Cuckoo Sandbox, McAfee Advanced Threat Detection\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\i Vulnerability Management}: Rapid7 Nexpose, RedSeal, Tenable SecurityCenter, MetaSploit Pro, PhishMe, OpenSCAP, SCAP/OVAL/XCCDF, Scumblr\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\i Crypto/Secret Management} HashiCorip Vault, Microsoft Certificate Services, cfssl, OpenSSL, PKCS11, TPM\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\i Automation/Management}: packer, Chef, Ansible, Consul, ActiveDirectory Group Policy, Apache ZooKeeper\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\i Languages}: Ruby, Python, R, Shell/Bash, PowerShell, Go/golang, Scala, JavaScript\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\i Workflow}: JIRA, SharePoint, Confluence, HipChat, rundeck, Stash, Bitbucket, git\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\i Testing}: jenkins, TravisCI, Bamboo, selenium, cucumber, rspec, serverspec, brakeman, rubocop, capybara\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\i Data Repositories}: MySQL/MariaDB, PostgreSQL, Cassandra, ElasticSearch, InfluxDB, OSISoft PI System\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\i ETL/Pipeline}: Apache Kafka, RabbitMQ, Logstash, Pentaho Data Integration, Flume, Sqoop, Avro, Parquet\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\i Monitoring/Metrics}: Telegraf, Kapacitor, Zabbix, Nagios, CollectD, DiamonD, StatsD, Graphite, jolokia, jmxtrans\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\i Web}: Apache HTTPD, nginx, varnish cache, squid, haproxy, traefik\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\i Virtualization}: VMWare ESX, Docker, QEMU, KVM, OpenStack, Vagrant, AWS EC2\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\i Analysis/Visualization}: Jupyter, Rstudio, Apache Spark, Tableau, Pig, pandas, scikit-learn, shiny, grafana, kibana\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\i Compliance}: NERC CIP, SSAE16, NIST SP800-53, NIST CyberSecurity Framework\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\i OS}: CentOS/RHEL 5-7, Windows Server 2008/2012, macOS, OpenBSD, FreeBSD\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\i Network}: Cisco IOS, Arista EOS, openvswitch, ISC BIND, AWS Route53, InfoBlox DDI, wireshark\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\i Storage}: ceph, minio, OpenStack Swift, AWS S3\sa180\par}
